So now, let's look at some more of the basic concepts surrounding CloudFormation.
First,
what is CloudFormation? We looked at this a little bit in the previous sections,
but it's an AWS service that allows us to manage our cloud
resources using infrastructure as code.
It'll allow us to use either JSON or YAML syntax to describe all
of the resources that we want to create in AWS.
It'll also allow us to extend the default CloudFormation syntax
that we have with custom AWS Lambda functions that could create
something called custom resources.
And there's a lot of options for what we could do inside of CloudFormation,
but let's look at some of the basic concepts first.
The first concept is that of a template.
Now,
these templates contain all of the different things we want to create in AWS.
And when we use them with CloudFormation,
they create stacks,
which are essentially amalgamation of all the different AWS
resources that we want to create using those templates.
So, for example,
one stack might have different databases inside of it with all the
networking rules that connect to those databases,
as well as any virtual machines, or SQS queues,
or SNS topics that we want to create in AWS.
In addition to being able to write CloudFormation natively in JSON or YAML,
there are other tools that would allow us to create CloudFormation code,
things like the AWS Cloud Development Kit,
AWS Serverless Application Model,
or even third‑party frameworks not supported directly by AWS.
So when we're looking at all of these,
it's important to know how each of them differ.
When we're working with CloudFormation directly,
we're going to use it to control the state of our
infrastructure by describing every single cloud resource
inside of a descriptive set of code.
In addition to using CloudFormation directly,
we could also use something like the AWS Cloud Development Kit,
which will allow us to control our infrastructure using either
high‑level or low‑level constructs that consist of one or more
cloud resources without having to describe every single resource
in excruciating detail.
Now, in addition to using the Cloud Development Kit,
we could also use something like the AWS Serverless Application Model,
or AWS SAM.
Now,
this will be more focused on helping us develop and
deploy AWS Lambda‑based applications,
but it does allow us to do this a lot more easily without having to delve
into all the details of either CloudFormation or the CDK.
There's a lot of other tools that integrate with CloudFormation as well.
For example,
something like AWS CodeDeploy would allow us to deploy application code
to different compute services with nuanced rollout strategies. And some
of these AWS Developer Tools services will also integrate with
CloudFormation as a method for deploying application code out to your
different compute resources. Now, when we're working with CloudFormation,
we also have to pay attention to some of the permissions that we need in
order to get it to deploy our resources. There is first the permissions we'd
need in order to work with CloudFormation itself.
For example,
as a developer, inside of the AWS Identity and Access Management Console,
we might need to get permissions to have the ability to see CloudFormation
stacks and templates and deploy resources through CloudFormation, but then
we also need to make sure we have permissions for all the services that will
be touched by CloudFormation itself.
So if you're deploying a resource to Amazon SNS, for example,
and creating an SNS topic with CloudFormation, you'd also
need permissions to create the topic,
not just to be able to control CloudFormation stacks, and that'll go for any
other resources that you're manipulating with CloudFormation.
In addition to keeping these permissions in mind, when
we're working with CloudFormation,
there's a few security considerations we need to deal with.
The first one is that build pipelines that use
CloudFormation will carry a lot of permissions.
If you think about what I just said for the permissions with CloudFormation,
you might need permissions for a bunch of different things, like creating
AWS resources, deleting AWS resources, or modifying configurations, plenty
of things that could carry some risk with them.
So it's important to have isolated and inaccessible
build environments if it all possible,
meaning you can't have a developer fiddling around inside of your build
environment and taking advantage of the fact that CloudFormation needs a
lot of permissions to do what it needs to do.
You'll also need to make sure you secure the pipeline and how to
modify it or it's permissions so that developers who go rogue or
anybody who inadvertently gets access to your system can't modify
anything they shouldn't.
And finally,
you'll need to think outside the context of the build pipeline itself,
for example,
to secure the Git workflows that trigger build pipelines. Even if I
don't have access to a pipeline or a build environment,
I could go into a GitHub repo, change some of the code inside
of the infrastructure as code, and introduce a flaw either
intentionally or unintentionally.
So making sure that you secure those Git repositories and implement review
processes on your code changes is essential when you're trying to set up secure practices using infrastructure as code.